# GSSDENet

## GSSDENet: Network for Simultaneous Glass Surface Segmentation and Depth Estimation

### Abstract
In modern indoor scenes, glass surfaces such as glass walls and windows are ubiquitous, and their presence significantly impacts computer vision tasks like visual Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM). However, most existing methods for detecting glass surfaces are limited to performing either segmentation or depth estimation individually. In this paper, we introduce a network called GSSDENet, designed to achieve high-performance segmentation and depth estimation of glass surfaces simultaneously. Based on our previous work, we first propose Cascade Atrous Pooling (CAP) V2 module and Cascade Network Architecture V2 to form the glass surface segmentation part of our GSSDENet, which outperforms other State-of-the-Art (SOTA) methods in glass surface segmentation. Additionally, we present a Context Guided Depth Attention (CGDA) module, which uses the highquality contextual features of glass surfaces generated by CAP V2 modules as the query to guide the generation of glass surface depth features through the self-attention mechanism of Transformers. Extensive experiments on the benchmark dataset demonstrated that our GSSDENet surpasses other SOTAs in the combined performance of glass surface segmentation and depth estimation.

### Dataset
Please download from the corresponding pages of [GDD](https://github.com/Mhaiyang/CVPR2020_GDNet) and [GW-Depth](https://github.com/ViktorLiang/GW-Depth) and put them in the `dataset` folder like:
```
dataset/
├── GDD/
├── GW-Depth/
├── GSD.py
├── GWDepth.py
├── __init__.py
```

### Requirements
* Python 3.10
* CUDA 11.7
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Model
Place models in the `ckpt` folder.
| Network | Backbone | Download |
|:---------------|:----:|:---:|
| GSSDENet-S | ResNet-101 | [Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Ua1IoDuiJlu4A8VOxnbB919gtMGJk3CQ/view?usp=sharing) |
| GSSDENet-S | ConvNeXt-B | [Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1vHNlDHHsRWQ4muFEQtdMVyWwVvNEMRE8/view?usp=sharing) |
| GSSDENet | ResNet-101 | [Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1-MaMNrlr9IR_5e-wuCUkJYDDB6c_07Br/view?usp=sharing) |

### Test
Use `infer_GSS.py` or `infer_GSSDE.py` to test after downloading the datasets and models.
```
python infer_GSS.py
```

### Contact
E-Mail: chen.zeyuan.tkb_gu@u.tsukuba.ac.jp
